# US Airline Sentiment Analysis


## Introduction

In the age of social media, Twitter is a powerful tool for the average user to voice their opinion about certain topics, ideas, persons, organizations, experiences, and just about anything else that someone feels the need to state publicly. It has become somewhat of a digital “towns square” where any and everybody can say what is on their mind. It is not only the individual that has the ability to leverage the power of opinion, however, but companies themselves have the ability to take advantage of the almost limitless data that is being fed into the twitter feed on a daily basis. One immensely powerful method of utilizing the vast stores of opinion data is sentiment analysis. For use by a company, this simply refers to the process of analyzing and extracting opinions and feelings about a certain product, user experience, or company as a whole. In doing so, that company is able to make more guided and strategic decisions to cater to the need of their customers. 

In this project, I will be conducting a sentiment analysis of tweets regarding several different US Airlines, and building a model to classify new tweets as positive or negative without any manual labeling. With this model, I will then be able to determine some of the most commonly used words in negative or positive tweets to determine direct reasons why customers are happy or angry with their experience with a particular airline. With this information, airlines would be able to take direct action in correcting some of the negative aspects of their services as well as ensuring they remain diligent in continuing the positive aspects of their services. 

## Data

I will be using a dataset pulled from kaggle, which is a widely-used source for public datasets. The dataset contains almost 15,000 tweets, each in its own row, in which the tweets were manually labeled as “positive”, “negative”, or “neutral”. These tweets are all tagging a certain US Airline, which was also extracted and put into its own column. For all of the tweets with negative sentiment labels, another feature is included to describe the reason for negative sentiment. The remaining features are just details about the tweet itself, including the account username, time of tweet, retweet count, etc. 
The dataset can be found here: https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/crowdflower/twitter-airline-sentiment

## Methods

I will first do inital data wrangling and exploration to clean the data and get a better understanding of it. The goal of the project will be to build a model that can classify tweets as positive or negative, and use the model to find the most predictive words for each class as well as for each airline.  I will first need pre-process the tweets to easily feed into a Scikit-learn vectorizer function. Since this will be a binary classification problem, I will get rid of the neutral tweets. Once I have split the data, I will use different combinations of CountVectorizer, TfidfVectorizer, Logistic Regression, Multinomial Naive-Bayes, and Support Vector Machines to find the best model. Using the model, I will find the strength of each word in predicting the class and analyze these to find the major reasons why there is negative sentiment towards a particular airline.

## Conclusion

Sentiment analysis can be an extremely effective method in determining how people are feeling towards a particular company, service, product, etc. This model can be used by each airline in specific to directly pull tweets that are tagging their profile, classify the tweets as negative or positive and ultimately determine particular reasons why customers are unhappy. With this, they can direct more effort into correcting some of these complaints, such as providing more assistance due to flight cancellations, working to create a better online experience when booking through their website, and rewarding employees who receive praise by customers which would incentivise the customer service representatives and flight attendants to be more cordial towards customers. Airlines can also directly identify tweets with negative sentiment, reply to the disappointed customers directly (damage control, maintaining image and reputation, etc.), and offer refunds, promotions, etc. for their negative experiences. There are several further methods of analysis that I would like to do to increase the use and effectiveness of these models, such as including emotional features for each word that would give further classification power to the model. Also, determining ways to detect sarcasm in tweets would be extremely helpful in classifying more negative tweets correctly. One method to do so would be to manually label tweets as sarcastic or not sarcastic and use this as another feature when training. To truly understand how machines can find sarcasm, one would need to understand how humans themselves detect sarcasm (emotion, tone, past behavior, etc). With this, further features can be devised to make the model that much more effective. More further modeling would be to include neutral as a classification category and make this a multi-class problem, as well as create model to classify negative sentiment directly. Overall, I believe this model and ones like it can provide a major benefit to airline organizations in attracting new customers as well as influencing returning customers. 
